Saulis Inner Game Course [2/15] - Anxiety
Course One - Lesson Two - Anxiety
 
 
This lesson will be twice as short as the first one – so let’s get right into it!

The standard definition of Anxiety, taken directly from Google, is:
---
A feeling of unease, such as worry or fear, that can be mild or severe.

Everyone has feelings of anxiety at some point in their life – for example, you may feel worried and anxious about sitting an exam, having a medical test or job interview, or talking to strangers.

It is the subjectively unpleasant feelings of dread over anticipated events, such as the feeling of potential or imminent death, failure, rejection, etc.
---

In dating, most people have two very common problems with anxiety:
	1	Approach Anxiety, when approaching new people, particularly if they are beautiful and you’re attracted to them.
	2	General Social Anxiety in various social situations; not knowing what to say, how to act, fearing too much what other people think, what kind of impression you’re going to make, etc.
 
So how do you deal with that?

Well, approach anxiety is easy to deal with – and I’ll tell you exactly how to do that in just a moment.

General anxiety is much trickier, because you can’t just snap your fingers and get rid of it. You overcome it with time, effort, and through experience.

Most people in the world worry about being socially awkward in public, so you’re not alone in this.

That’s why when you go somewhere where there are other people - don’t think that you’re the only socially awkward person there!

No matter where you go, everyone is wondering whether other people like them, whether they’re interesting or boring to others, and what first or long-lasting impressions they are going to make on the people they meet.

It’s an evolutionary survival mechanism that lets us function in a society of other individuals. Only sociopaths or psychopaths don’t feel anxious.

Remember - almost every person in the world is insecure about something - so the trick to get over social anxiety is to accept this fact.

Again, this is the first and most important stage in getting rid of anxiety.

You have to understand and accept the fact that EVERYONE is anxious from time to time about something, no matter what else they have going on in their lives.

Don’t believe me? Let’s take the Billionaire Elon Musk as an example. 

He has more money than he will ever need, he has friends and loved ones, as well as the respect, adoration and admiration of millions - and pretty much everything else a man can want or have in life. He’s like the real-life Tony Stark, except without the trauma.

So what does he have to be anxious about?

Well, maybe one of his rockets failing and exploding. He’s definitely anxious about that!

Or maybe about people not liking his newest Tesla car? He said so himself, in interviews.

You get the idea. No matter who you are – you WILL get anxious about stuff that’s going on in your life. So accept this as an integral part of life, so that you can start to deal with it.
 
How to deal with general social anxiety
 
I will be repeating the most important points several times.

No one has a manual on life, everyone is improvising as they go - and no one was born with great social skills.

The only reliable way to completely counteract social anxiety is to gain social confidence!

Social confidence is developed through experience and by learning social skills.

The more you talk to other people, the more practice you get in social settings - the better you become at it.

To the point where your social anxiety GRADUALLY and naturally disappears.

Decreasing anxiety is about stopping the incessant voice in your head that thinks all the time, and comes up with all the stupid and ridiculous “What ifs” that take your focus away from other important things, and makes you waste a lot of mental energy in vain. Most of those “What ifs” will never happen - but you may still think they’re a real possibility and are afraid of them.

However, it’s all in your head!

It’s like having someone scream in your ear all the time, while you’re thinking or talking to someone – which can drive anyone crazy.

You need to learn to drown out that voice, or it will take over your life.

Also, that voice uses up and takes away an immense amount of mental processing power and willpower, both of which you could use for much better goals.

And, as per the definition, this voice is the thing that brings on the unpleasant feelings of dread over anticipated events.

Take a note of this – “Anticipated Events”.

That voice in your mind ANTICIPATES something, and thinks of all the things that could go wrong!

You think of approaching a girl and you go “Oh, what if her boyfriend comes here and punches me!?”, or “What if she thinks I’m too fat?” and a thousand similarly unlikely and sometimes stupid scenarios.

These thoughts are completely irrational, and the fear that they cause is ALSO irrational!

Do you understand now why you have to drown out that voice? It is the cause of all self-doubt in people – and self-doubt is one of the most unattractive qualities a person can possess.

I’ll tackle self-doubt and how to drown out that voice in a later lesson - so let’s get back to anxiety.

There are two practical ways to deal with social anxiety – either through competence or desensitization, or both:
 
	1	Competence - It’s like with almost everything in life - you get over something by getting as much experience as possible and by becoming good at it.
 
	1	Desensitization – By doing something enough times so that you become so used to it and so bored of it, that you stop feeling any more negative emotions about it.

Both are very similar and even interchangeable, but they have their distinct differences nonetheless. I’ll show you how to use each of them.

Let’s start with the first one:

Confidence is brought on by competence.

Let me explain it like this, at the cost of repeating myself:

The only reliable way to completely counteract social anxiety is to gain social confidence!

No one is supremely confident all the time, because everyone has failures in life, has fears, doubts and insecurities. Every single one of us!

But you can become confident in something if you become competent at that thing.

In this case, confidence is like a muscle, and you have to train it to be confident in something - be it with work, dating, decision-making and so on. You have to take action and do it as much as possible.

Taking action is the only reliable way to gain competence at something.

Since confidence comes from the feeling that you KNOW you can do a certain thing or task in a good or successful way, you just have to constantly practice doing the things you want to master, for as long as it takes for them to not bother you anymore. For as long as it takes for you to do them effortlessly.

As you gain skill in that area of life, you will also gain a feeling of genuine confidence. The sort of confidence that can never be taken away, because you've earned it through effort and got the necessary experience to support it.

That’s why there is no easier way to become confident in something than to keep doing that thing until you know you can do it with your eyes closed.

You want to reach the stage where you’re unconsciously competent - that it becomes second nature to you - then you’ll also be entirely confident in your abilities to do that particular thing.

This applies to sports, being successful with women, being successful in business, and really just about any other endeavor in life that you can think of.

There is no other way to learn confidence than the hands-on approach – you just have to get in the thick of it and learn by doing – by having as many interactions with people as you can.

Eventually, you will see that it’s not as bad as you think, that it’s even kind of easy, and you will realize that you’ve matured and thus gain more confidence in yourself through competence. 

You can’t learn confidence from a book, you can’t learn it from a course – you have to learn it yourself, by deciding that you are simply going to keep doing something until you succeed much more frequently at it and become COMFORTABLE with it.

Let’s take a specific sport as an example - tennis.

At first, you’re not very confident that you can hit your target with the ball, let alone the ball itself.

However, if you just practice and keep doing it, thousands upon thousands of times, eventually you will hit it most if not all of the time.

If someone later tells you to hit a target with it, you will be pretty confident that you will be able to do so quite easily, as opposed to when you just started.

You’ll even be comfortable betting money on it!

Same thing with seduction – confidence only comes from experience. You aren’t born with experience, so all you can do if you don’t have it is just be CHILL and RELAXED and in control of yourself and then go through the whole process to the best of your abilities. Until you learn it and become comfortable with it.

Eventually, with enough work put in, it will become effortless. You can apply this to most things in life.
But you can’t do it if you stay home and don’t get out in the field!
 
Now let’s tackle Desensitization:
 
Imagine the following - you decided someday to learn some conversation skills, and then approach 1000 people over the next month in a business or social setting - and talk to them about stuff.

I bet that would be absolutely brutal in the beginning for you - as it would be for most people.

You’d be thinking “What do I talk to them about?” “What If I don’t figure out what to say?”, “What if an awkward pause ensues and drags on for too long?!” “What if he/she simply thinks I’m an idiot and a complete moron?” and so on and so forth.

But guess what would happen after you approach something like 100 people in this way?

You’d get BORED of it eventually, that’s what! You’d be so used to it that the thought of approaching those remaining 900 or whatever would be not one of anxiety, but of indifference or boredom!

And do you think you’d be afraid of the 500th person you approach? Do you think you’d care that much about how they see or perceive you; whether they like you, hate you or are indifferent to you?

That’s right - it wouldn’t matter the least bit – you wouldn’t give a single fuck because you’d become so bored of it and so desensitized to it, that it would no longer create any strong emotions in you!

And once you don’t get emotionally affected – you won’t become anxious.

And THAT’S the key to getting over social anxiety.
 
How to get Over Approach Anxiety
 
Now I’ll show you a proven and effective way to completely get rid of your approach anxiety!

In psychology circles, it is called Exposure Therapy, and it has been tested by thousands upon thousands of people, very successfully.

This is exactly how I got rid of my own approach anxiety when I was starting out learning all of this.
It utilizes both desensitization, and, to a smaller degree, competence.

Here’s exactly what you do:
	1	You go to a nearby town where no one knows you - you find a place with lots of people; like a park, mall, gym, beach, city center, club, etc.
	2	You then look out for people (or girls in your case, if you just want to talk to girls), who don’t seem to be in a hurry - and you approach them!
	3	You improvise and talk about whatever is on your mind.
	4	You might get rejected/ignored/whatever, and it doesn’t matter, as no one knows you! They won’t even remember you after a week - and if they do, who cares? You don’t know them either and you’ll probably never meet them again in your life. You learn to deal with rejection as a side-effect and talk to the girls who stop and chat with you.
	5	You rinse and repeat, over and over again!
	6	Eventually you get desensitized to all this and voila - you can now approach and talk to girls.
Aim to talk to at least 30 girls per day.

You will get a lot of experience as a result – so you will gain competence and become desensitized to any strong feelings in the process.

Gradually, your approach anxiety, and to an extent your general social anxiety will start to dissipate.

And by saying that you should talk about what’s on your mind - I do mean that you should just go up to the girl and tell her what you’re thinking.

It can even be something like “Oh hey, I saw you and thought you were pretty, but I’m not really good at talking to girls and I’m new in this town. Wanna chat?”

Stuff like this is completely disarming - she will either accept this and talk to you or reject you - but in any case, you’ll get some respect and valuable EXPERIENCE.

Then you adjust, calibrate – and approach until you get comfortable with it and the act itself doesn’t flood your brain with strong emotions any longer.

---

This is exactly how I have dealt with my approach anxiety.

I was extremely nervous when talking to girls, when I was around 20 years old - so I went to a nearby town that was 30 minutes away by car, where NO ONE knew me.

I then went to various places where lots of girls usually visit, and just approached every girl that I found attractive and started a conversation.

It didn’t matter if the girl was alone or with friends - the only ones I didn’t approach were those who OBVIOUSLY looked very busy and in a hurry to get somewhere. Other than that - everyone was fair game.

And believe you me - IT WAS ABSOLUTELY BRUTAL the first few days. My heart was racing with every approach, my head was spinning, I felt that familiar lump in my throat every time I said something - and it was just the hardest thing I forced myself to do.

And you know what? After about a week or so of that, I no longer felt anxious about talking to any girl - AT ALL.

This was essentially like diving into a sea without a life preserver. All in.

And I guarantee – if you do this and persevere through the brutal beginning – it will work for you and you will get rid of your anxiety!
---
Finally, here’s a quick little mind-trick to help you deal with general anxiety:

It’s a technique that psychologists use to treat anxiety called Conscious Reinterpretation.

Harvard scientists ran a study in which they caused participants to feel socially anxious by making them give a speech in front of an audience. The first group wasn’t given any special instructions and, quite unsurprisingly, their levels of social anxiety were high, and because of that, their performances suffered! The second group was given a very simple exercise to practice. Whenever they felt nervous, they were to tell themselves - “I feel excited.”

They were instructed to reinterpret anxiety as excitement. The audience scored the second group as performing significantly better, and participants in the second group also self-reported feeling more calm and confident.

So, the next time you’re nervous talking to someone, be it a guy or a girl, you can do exactly what participants in the study were instructed to do!

Tell yourself, “I am excited.”

Seriously, each time you feel anxiety, think or say in your mind something like: “This is all new to me, I’m very excited, and that’s good!”

Over time, as you practice this, your anxiety will turn into excitement, and you will feel more relaxed, calm, confident, and ready to tackle any new problem.
---

That’s it for lesson two, I hope you apply the practical lesson as it is 100% proven to work. I wrote these lessons with my friend who has a PhD in behavioral psychology, and did my research.