Saulis Inner Game Course [3/15] - Nervousness
Course One – Lesson 3 - Nervousness

 
Let’s get right into it:

The vast majority of men get somewhat nervous when they have to talk to a girl that they find beautiful and attractive to them, ESPECIALLY if it’s someone they don’t even know.

There may be a few different reasons why you’re having trouble talking to girls that you like and want to ask out, but one of the main ones are insecurities and self-esteem issues.

You like her, but you subconsciously think that you’re not good enough for her - that is why you get anxious when talking to her and eventually self-sabotaging thoughts start to creep in.

A huge part of your nervousness around your crush and beautiful women in general comes from the way that you think about and treat hot women, or women that you’re interested in.

So tell me this:
Do you have trouble talking to girls you DON’T find attractive?

Do you have trouble going into a shop and talking to a girl who you don’t find attractive about some item you want to buy?

Do you have trouble talking with an unattractive female friend or class-mate or co-worker, who just wants to talk to you?

Do you have trouble talking to girls you’re completely not interested in romantically?

If no, and you only have trouble talking to beautiful girls who you’re attracted to - then you have problems with self-esteem.

And, if any of these toxic thoughts like “Does she like me?”, “Why would she even like me?”, “Am I good enough for her?”, “There are tons of better-looking/wealthier/taller/whatever guys out there, why would she want to be with me?” and so on sound familiar, then you have some insecurities as well.

How would you talk to your crush if you felt that you totally deserved to have a woman like her in your life and think you’d be great for her, too? I bet you wouldn’t be nervous at all!

If you regularly thought that you’re the best thing that ever happened to her, even if you’re delusional – you’d never be nervous around that girl!

In this case, fake it till you make it works.

So, as you can see – IT’S ALL IN YOUR HEAD!

The Science behind this is very simple, in fact:

You are afraid of failure and rejection from the girl, which creates STRESS.

In stressful situations, your brain sends signals from the Pituitary Gland to the Kidneys, where your Adrenal Gland is located. It releases more adrenaline than in normal situations, which raises your heart-rate, dilates your pupils and so on and so forth.

This pretty much triggers a fight and flight response, an evolutionary mechanism which helps people survive, but completely fucks up your rational mind and emotions during that crucial moment.

It gives you that familiar feeling of choking up, of being too much in your own head, of doubting yourself too much, and so on and so forth. It can be physically and mentally CRIPPLING, as many of us know!
To really fix the issue, to become less nervous, you have to work on your self-esteem and perception of self-worth.

First and foremost - you have to learn to stop putting girls on pedestals and stop thinking that they’re somehow above you just because you happen to like how they look and are attracted to them.

Then you have to start talking to girls like they’re just another person, for example your buddy - and try to stop being in your head all that much. Learn to relax while around girls and not feel like you’re always on the spot.

This all comes with experience.
 A Practical Lesson:
 
So here’s a practical thing you can start doing:
 
For a month or two, start forcing yourself to talk to girls, ANY AND ALL GIRLS, as if they’re your buddy!
 
Walk up and talk to them about random shit, just like you’d do with your best friend.
 
At first, it will be incredibly hard to think that way and do that, but it will get better eventually, and after a while, you’ll get so used to it that it will become natural.
 
But you have to persevere until you INTERNALIZE this behavior. And you can only do that through gathering experience, through approaching and doing it until you become desensitized to any negative feelings about this and it becomes second nature.
 
For most men, it takes about a month or two.
 
If you approach a lot of women during that time, you’ll internalize this significantly, faster, in like a week or two.
 
But once you get used to talking to all girls like that, especially the gorgeous and hot ones, you’ll quickly start noticing the difference in their interest towards you!
 
Most stunning girls are so used to guys treating them differently, trying to please them, kiss their ass and otherwise behave in a wimpy supplicate way that they will be shocked, intrigued and then become massively attracted to you, just for the sheer fact that you’re talking to them without giving them ANY special treatment – just like you’d talk to any other person or your buddy!

That shows MASSIVELY attractive qualities, that you’re not desperate, that you don’t aim to please people, that you just don’t give a fuck about the fact that they’re super attractive and could get most guys to do whatever the hell they please for them.
 
They’ll think that you’re so used to talking with beautiful women that they don’t have any effect on you. And that’ exactly what you’re aiming for, for beautiful women to not have ANY effect on you anymore.
 
You retain your power when talking to them, and they don’t get to use and abuse you.
 
You will be DIFFERENT, and thus incredibly attractive to them.
 
Hot women will LOVE you for it, if you internalize this and pull this off!
 
---
But let’s get back to nervousness:
 
If a beautiful girl makes you nervous, it means that you’re assigning too much importance on her looks, and not enough on her personality in general.

So learn to accept yourself for your qualities, strengths and even weaknesses.

Girls like you for the way you make them feel, not for what you own, how you look, etc.

So work on your self-esteem issues, invest in yourself, try to get that confidence up.
 
Here’s an actual way to deal with your nervousness while talking to girls:
 
MOST IMPORTANTLY - it is completely Okay to feel nervous when talking to your crush or beautiful women in general.

Nervousness and anxiety feels vulnerable, that’s why men think that showing any signs of nerves at all makes them look weak and unattractive. But that couldn’t be further from the truth, because showing vulnerability is one of the most important ways you can deeply connect with someone.

The problem comes when you’re trying to HIDE those nerves, acting all cool, because for some reason you have to “not show any emotions” and “be manly” or whatever, when talking to girls, or they’ll dislike you.

You couldn’t be more wrong again. Feeling nervous is natural, and everyone experiences this.
I’ve talked to several thousand women, dated like crazy and slept with hundreds - and I STILL get nervous from time to time when approaching girls.

But that nervousness doesn’t come from insecurity anymore - it just comes from experiencing something new, from being alive.

Don’t try to clamp down on your nerves and suppress them - turn them into feelings of excitement instead and even show the girl that you’re slightly nervous.

So why not be TRUTHFUL and HONEST with the beautiful girl you’re talking to, up front, about your anxiety and nervousness?

Usually, what does the trick is addressing the elephant in the room by saying exactly what’s on your mind to the girl. Being authentic and genuine as a person.

Saying something to your crush like “Listen, I think you’re great, but for some reason I feel very nervous around you, I don’t know why” will be completely disarming and show her that you’re trying to talk to her as a person to a person, not as a person to an object.

Then, all the pressure from your mind will DISSIPATE!

Say something to beautiful women you approach like “Hey, I saw you and thought you looked great and wanted to talk to you, but I could barely work up the courage to walk up and say hi! I’m <whatever> - so who are you, besides drop-dead-gorgeous?”

And this will accomplish two things:

First, they’ll either like it or dislike it - but that’s fine, since you can’t please everyone and there may be many reasons for this out of your control. 

The most important thing is that either way they will RESPECT you for having the balls to approach them and say what’s on your mind.

Second - for the rest of your conversation, you won’t have to worry at all about your anxiety and nervousness, trying to hide it - because it’s now out in the open - you’ve dealt with it by voicing it and being real.

This is incredibly liberating and opens up a bunch of opportunities to talk to the girl and get to know her.
Some people don’t need to say stuff like this, as they are incredibly confident because they’re already mastered social skills, but the majority still experiences nervousness, so just admit it and don’t try to hide it and act all cool.

TRYING TO ACT ALL COOL AND HIDING YOUR EMOTIONS IS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS YOU CAN DO! SPEAK YOUR MIND INSTEAD!

I’ll scream this again if I have to, until you understand this crucial point.

TRYING TO ACT ALL COOL AND HIDING YOUR EMOTIONS IS ONE OF THE WORST THINGS YOU CAN DO! SPEAK YOUR MIND INSTEAD!

Repeat this 10 fcking times a day if you have to, until you start to believe this.

---
Anyway, these two lines are just random examples at the top of my head, I’m sure you can think of better things to say to women when you walk up, depending on your personal situations and interactions - just don’t forget to be completely honest about how you’re feeling, voice it and watch the results.

On a little side-note, regarding bad self-esteem. After all the inevitable self-sabotaging thoughts start to seep into your brain - it usually all starts going downhill.

That’s because most people you’re talking to, especially if they’re beautiful women who are arguably more socially perceptive than the norm, easily pick up on all of these insecurities emanating from you like a cheap perfume, as they’ve experienced it with scores of guys - and they instantly lose all respect and attraction towards you.

There’s nothing worse than insecurities, neediness and desperation when it comes to attraction.

So your fear is somewhat justified, meaning that if you’re not self-confident enough and don’t have a healthy self-esteem and self-worth - you’re going to get screwed if you try to completely suppress it, because all of these problems and bottled up insecurity get projected outside of you and most girls notice this.

I’ll tackle self-esteem in a later lesson. I’ll talk about how to develop a healthy and good self-esteem through certain realizations, techniques and a change in beliefs.
 
Now go and practice the practical lesson from this article!
￼

￼
￼


￼
￼
