Saulis Inner Game Course [1/15] - Boundaries!
Saulis Dating Inner Game Course One - Lesson One - Boundaries!
Introduction to the Course
 
Let’s get right into this - you’re here because you've opted in to the SaulisDating Newsletter to receive my Inner Game Course on how to deal with various insecurities and self-esteem issues.

This course is still incomplete. I'm currently developing it with a professional cognitive behavioral therapist who helps people deal with anxiety, depression, nervousness, and other mental problems, by showing them how to correct their thought patterns which are causing them distress and impede their ability to function at their best in everyday society.

And, since my main objective - other than to turn you into a Secure and Confident Man who has his shit together - is to significantly improve your general success with the opposite sex, all the lessons will still focus mainly on the subject of you becoming awesome with women.

So far, there are about 15 lessons in this newsletter. The full course will eventually contain around 25 lessons and is going to be sold as part of my Inner Game Package for about $60-90. So, enjoy it while it's free, and any feedback is greatly appreciated.

Each lesson will tackle a different issue. It will contain a very in-depth explanation of the problem, show you why this happens and why you need to fix it. And then give you a practical way which shows how to solve this particular challenge.

A practical way that has been tested by thousands of people to get over the problem successfully.

There are multiple ways to tackle each problem, and sometimes I’ll mention various alternatives. But you'll always get information on at least one!

Also, each lesson will be very long and comprehensive – so strap yourself in, because there is genuinely no quick fix when it comes to self-improvement, no matter what anyone tells you. If you want to help yourself, you WILL have to spend the necessary time and effort to do so. But if you GENUINELY make a decision to help yourself RIGHT NOW and give it your best, these lessons with proven techniques WILL help you get over many debilitating psychological issues like anxiety and negative self-talk.

In any case, you will not get this course and these lessons anywhere else – they are exclusive to this newsletter and created by me, after years of research and practice - and will only remain free until I've finished developing the full course sometime in 2019.

That said, there's nothing in the world that works 100% for everyone. So whether my material actually helps you will depend entirely on you and your work ethic. On how well you can understand the concepts, how much action you are willing and going to take to fix these problems, and on your willpower to actually start and apply the knowledge to become a better person. NO ONE IS GOING TO DO THIS FOR YOU!

That’s because personal success depends on many factors. And there's no way for me to know how well you'll do with all of the information provided by these lessons, as I do not know you, your background, your work and life ethic, as well as your individual people skills and practices.

However, one thing is clear - If you read this and remain passive – nothing will change!

That’s because nothing in life worth having comes easy. So you have to commit to helping yourself and start taking positive and decisive action, TODAY.

My goal here is to modify your negative or faulty thinking, feelings and behaviors. Then change your mindsets, beliefs, and how you perceive the world, and then help you get off your ass and out of your comfort zone - and go do the practical lessons!

So, if you’re not fully prepared and ready to read this content in full, learn from it, and then apply the knowledge and do the practical lessons – this will most likely not help you at all, and you might as well just unsubscribe now! I mean, I guess it could give you some insights and good ideas, but it won't change you at the core.

If, however, you're fully committed to helping yourself become a better person and are ready to do what it takes to solve your issues – then read on!

I genuinely want to help you because it saddens me greatly to see so many men waste their potential. Especially my friends. So here's my gift to you - the first lesson.
 
Lesson One – Boundaries!
 
This will be a long lesson, like all the others. But it'll help solve one of the most fundamental problems in dating and when relating with other people.
 
What boundaries are, how to set them and keep them.
 
Both being successful with women and dealing with your insecurities start with your boundaries.
That’s because boundaries are a measure of a person’s self-esteem.

They're important because without them - you can’t function as an emotionally healthy human being. Without boundaries, you'll get trampled on by other people who want to use and abuse you for their benefit.

In other words, without boundaries – you will only get used, and you won’t be successful in most endeavors of your life. I'm sure you don't want that.

Additionally, setting clear personal boundaries is vital to ensuring that your relationships are mutually respectful, supportive and caring. No matter if they're personal, business, intimate or even sexual relationships.

Your boundaries establish the limits for acceptable behavior from other people around you, and they determine whether other people can take advantage of you, put you down, use you to further their gains, make fun of you, etc.

And let me tell you this once and for all – women will NEVER respect a guy who has no clear boundaries.

That’s because, in men, boundaries are a sign of Masculinity.

One of the most attractive and respected abilities in men is the capacity to walk away from anything and anyone that compromises their set of personal boundaries. It's also a sign of self-respect and maturity.

Throughout every man’s life, there will be moments when other people will try to exert control or influence over them by using either information, shame, guilt, sex, money, position, approval or even blackmail and similar things.

Certain people will try to get control over you, and there’s nothing more masculine than to send them a message that you will not be controlled by anyone other than yourself.

But to set your boundaries, you need to know who you are and what you stand for.

That’s easier said than done; because many people nowadays don’t really know who they are or what they stand for. Many aren’t aware of their strengths, weaknesses, passions, ambitions, preferences and so on.

You need to know what you're willing to tolerate in yourself and in others, to set boundaries.

If you have clearly defined boundaries and respect them, not twisting your values and ideals for the first woman that comes along and spreads her legs for you – you'll be incredibly attractive to all women. Because that quality radiates outwards and women pick up on it. It shows you're not desperate and stand for what you believe in.

If any woman sees that your ideals and values aren't going to be compromised by her or any other girl and that you're willing to walk away from her at any time – in other words, that you're not desperate and stand for what you believe in – she'll instantly respect you, even if she doesn't like you. And she'll most likely become immediately attracted to you. 

I’ll repeat this crucial point again - setting boundaries is essential if you want to be physically and emotionally healthy.

That’s because they help maintain balance in your life, allow you to be interdependent in various relationships, intimate or otherwise, and help you keep a healthy self-respect and earn the respect of others.

If you don’t have any boundaries, it’s like leaving the gate to your castle wide open so that ANYONE, including your friends and your enemies, unwanted and wanted guests, can come in and do as they please without hesitation. Break shit apart, steal stuff, piss on the floor if they wanted to and then leave, thinking who'd be such an idiot to let them do that without consequence. I'm sure if you had a nice house, you wouldn't want anyone to raid it like that, would you? So why would you let other people raid YOU, arguably the ONLY thing of REAL value that you ever have in your life?
 
Types of boundaries
 
There are two primary types of boundaries – physical and emotional.

Let’s start with the physical:

Your physical limits are there to protect you from physical harm and discomfort.
They include your property, body, personal space, privacy, sexuality, safety, noise, etc.

There can be many examples:

Let’s say you go somewhere where there's some very high noise that hurts your ears. Like a drilling operation or some factory with loud machinery. Naturally, you'll immediately want either to leave that area or figure out a way to reduce or block the noise from reaching your ears so as not to harm them and to alleviate your discomfort.

Another example can be about something you own. I’m sure you won’t let another person take your stuff, like your phone, with impunity. There will be consequences to their actions if they try to take it from you - if you’re not a complete pussy.

It could also be about setting a physical boundary when a person approaches you to discuss some sort of issue with you, and that person gets too close. WAY too close.

Your immediate and automatic reaction will be to take a step back in order to reset your personal space and avoid discomfort.

This sends a non-verbal message to the other person that when they stand too close to you - you feel an invasion of your personal space and do not like it.

Also, you might push them back instead of stepping back, depending on the situation.

Now, if that person continues to move closer to you, heeding no mind to your boundary, your next step might be to verbally protect your boundary by telling that person to STOP, because this is bothering you. In this way, you are further protecting your personal space by setting your limit.

Now, if that person STILL pushes on – you may resort to being physical with him. Let’s say he starts attacking you. If you don’t defend yourself by either running away or hurting him to somehow discourage him from trying this again – you WILL most likely get hurt.

That’s a last resort, of course, and an extreme example. But you have to be aware of it to learn about boundaries.

Another example could be setting clear professional boundaries – that you will not sleep, cohort or otherwise have any sort of relations, other than professional ones, with either your boss, your employees, etc.

As the last example, it can be about inappropriate touching, sexual advances that make you uncomfortable, and inappropriate speech.

If these infringe on your boundaries – you have to act, or you will get used and abused.
There are hundreds of more examples, but these will suffice.

Now let’s take a look at emotional and intellectual boundaries:

These include your behavior, choices, beliefs, values, responsibilities, relationships, intimacy, etc.
They are paramount because they protect your sense of self-esteem, your ability to process your emotional state and to separate your feelings from those of others.

If you don’t have strong emotional boundaries, you can be significantly affected by the feelings of other people.

As an example, let’s say someone comes up to you, starts crying and gives you a sob story about how their relatives got killed, how they’re homeless, destitute, and are about to commit suicide if you don’t give them some money.

While in rare cases this may be true and genuine – in most cases, they just want to use you.
If you get easily emotionally affected by this, it means you don’t have strong emotional boundaries and can easily be manipulated by others.

Then what’s stopping other people from taking advantage of you? From dictating what you have to think and feel, from telling you how to behave and act, etc.?

Not having strong emotional boundaries means that you can even sacrifice your own plans, dreams, and goals in life, in order to please other people!

Now is that the way you want to live your life?

Why would you want to get used and abused by others, for their own gain and your loss?

This is EXACTLY why boundaries are incredibly important if you want to become a healthy and secure individual. An individual who lives his own life for his own happiness, and not one who sacrifices his happiness so that others benefit from it.

Having no emotional boundaries can also lead to taking responsibility for someone else’s feelings. For example, not knowing how to separate your feelings from your girlfriend’s feelings can allow her moods to dictate your level of happiness, sadness, fulfillment, intimacy, etc.

And doesn’t this sound like complete and utter bullshit to you?

I hope you realize how this should make you ANGRY, or frustrated, or any other negative feeling that can fuel your drive to change yourself.

Change always happens faster if it’s fueled by an intense feeling – either positive or negative!

Incidentally, that’s how I got tired of people using me in the past, and one day just snapped, like “What the fuck is this bullshit?! This has to change, NOW!”

But that’s not the way to change yourself reliably, as it depends on hitting some sort of rock bottom and getting to the point where you can’t take it any longer.

Now let’s talk about how to SET your boundaries. But first, remember the thing I said about you and your castle – about anyone being able to walk in, both friends and enemies. This brings me to the point that boundaries can be both healthy and unhealthy.

Unhealthy boundaries:

If your boundaries are too weak, too porous – people can easily get over them and abuse you.
If your boundaries are too rigid, this may lead to isolation from others, to loneliness, unfulfillment and to being shunned. This is like putting up a brick wall around your castle and never letting anyone in, under any circumstances.

You can’t get out, and no one will be able to get in.

This will cause a lot of harm to you, particularly in intimacy in your romantic relationships. This will also damage your professional relationships, as you will not be able to reach any compromise or make a win-win deal.

Inflexibility, imperviousness or non-responsiveness to feedback is a sign of a rigid boundary. If you are closed to change and hang on to how things always are – you’re too rigid.

Unhealthy boundaries cause people significant and profound emotional pain, and can lead to depression, anxiety, shyness, dependency, neediness, and, in worst cases, even to physical illness!

Healthy boundaries:

As a contrast, healthy boundaries help you be assertive. They let you freely and respectfully state your feelings, opinions, thoughts, ideas and needs to other people.

Having healthy boundaries gives you the ability to say yes or no to others, and accept when others tell you no.

They let you have equal partnerships with people, either personal or professional, where responsibility and power are shared. They protect your personal space both from intrusion and invasion by others.

They let you develop and nurture a healthy self-esteem and self-respect and empower you to take responsibility for yourself and your life.

They give you the ability to adapt and change when it’s needed and appropriate and accept and apply constructive criticism or feedback, without personalizing it.

Also, they stop you from wavering and being indecisive because of the stuff that’s happening around you and let you stand up for yourself.

As a result, you will be able to take responsibility for your ideas, behavior, needs and emotions, and people will respect you for that.
 
Why you need this
 
I hope you now understand what boundaries are, and how important they are to being happy, having successful relationships and being a successful person.

Just don’t forget one crucial point – boundaries are not a cure-all for all the woes in your life and your relationships.

They are just one part of a big whole. They’re sort of like a side effect of having a healthy self-esteem and a low neediness with people around you.

They’re set by emotionally healthy and mature people, and they create emotional health in others.
They’re the basis of starting to become a better person, but on their own – they are not enough!
That is why they are lesson one – they let you change and better yourself.
 
How to set boundaries
 
This is the hard part, so let’s start from the beginning:

Doesn’t it seem very obvious that no one would want their boundaries to be violated?

Then why do many of us allow it and don’t enforce or uphold them?

There can be many reasons, like fear of confrontation, safety concerns, fear of rejection, abandonment, loss of opportunities, friends, loved ones, etc.

And some of these concerns are sometimes legitimate, because when you’re dealing with a person who is physically dangerous to you or is threatening you - it may not necessarily be safe to attempt to enforce your boundaries or explicitly set them at that point in time.

But in cases like that, you have the law to protect you – or you should simply get away from such a situation.

That said, what’s really holding you may also be that you haven’t ever been TAUGHT how to set healthy boundaries – which is most often the case!

Do you ever remember having a conversation with your parents, teachers, mentors or the people you look up to, about boundaries?

You can’t seem to remember that, can you? You’re not alone in this – because most parents forget to or don’t feel the need to teach their children about boundaries – which is terrible and appalling!

Here’s a good excerpt from the book Boundaries: Where You End and I Begin by Anne Katherine:
---
When you identify the need to set a boundary, do it clearly, calmly, firmly, respectfully, and in as few words as possible.

Do not justify, get angry, or apologize for the boundary you are setting. You are not responsible for the other person’s reaction to the boundary you are setting.

You are only responsible for communicating your boundary in a respectful manner. If it upset them, know it is their problem.

Some people, especially those accustomed to controlling, abusing, or manipulating you, might test you. Plan on it, expect it, but remain firm.

Remember, your behavior must match the boundaries you are setting.

You cannot successfully establish a clear boundary if you send mixed messages by apologizing.

At first, you will probably feel selfish, guilty, or embarrassed when you set a boundary. Do it anyway and remind yourself you have a right to self-care.

Setting boundaries takes practice and determination.

Don’t let anxiety, fear or guilt prevent you from taking care of yourself. When you feel anger or resentment or find yourself whining or complaining, you probably need to set a boundary.

Listen to yourself, determine what you need to do or say, then communicate assertively.

Learning to set healthy boundaries takes time. It is a process. Set them in your own time frame, not when someone else tells you.

Develop a support system of people who respect your right to set boundaries. Eliminate toxic individuals from your life— those who want to manipulate, abuse, and control you.
---

This is a fantastic framework to start setting your boundaries.

Now here’s the practical part:

It all hinges on honesty and being authentic and genuine with people.

That’s why the most important word you need to learn is “No.”

This all starts with “No.”

Whenever you feel that someone does something you do not like – say no and explain why.

Explain to the person why you don’t like what they’re doing, why you feel the need for them to stop, and what the consequences will be.

Just don’t go overboard and threaten people, fight or do something equally silly – unless there is absolutely no other choice and they are threatening your well-being.

A powerful consequence is just to walk away and stop being with that person.

This applies to both personal and professional relationships.

Walking away. It makes people know that you will not tolerate certain actions, it is peaceful, and it sends a powerful message – that you will not be manipulated.

In business – when someone gives you a shitty deal – you are free to say no and walk away. Then you either find a better deal or wait till they give you one that suits both of you.

In relationships and dating – when someone does something shitty to you, treats you badly or outright puts you down as a person – you say “This is unacceptable” and walk away.

The key to setting a boundary and keeping it are consequences.

Make it clear that certain actions that people will do to you will have CONSEQUENCES to them.

But don’t be rigid – give people a chance. Something like “Fool me once, shame on me, fool me twice, shame on you. There won’t be a third time.”

This, of course, depends on what boundaries people breach and the severity of their actions.

For example, if someone punches you in the face – You shouldn’t even consider giving them a second chance without a very good reason.

But when someone tickles you in a fun and playful way, and you don’t like it – you may decide just to let them know that you don’t like it, but give them a hundred chances, until they really piss you off.

That’s what’s called a fluid boundary that does not affect your life and happiness in any significant way.

It’s good to have such a boundary, but it’s not necessary to vehemently protect it with tooth and nail and fight the person who breaches it.

So here’s what you do:
 
First - You make a list.
 
You identify what you tolerate in other people and yourself.

You think about how you have been allowing others to take advantage of you and how you might be accepting situations that are really unacceptable to you.

Then you write down the things that people may no longer do to you, say to you, or do around you.
Define your physical and emotional space, your values, core beliefs, mindsets, and outlook on life, so you have a clear picture of who you are and how you want to live.

You must be very clear on that point!

This will take some time, because this list may be short or very long, depending on you and what you PERSONALLY find acceptable and unacceptable.

It takes most people a day of self-reflection, soul-searching and relaxation to do this. But without this list, you will not get anywhere, unless you’re some sort of genius that remembers everything.
 
Second – you communicate.
 
The people you know:

Since your boundaries involve other people – and other people are not mind readers – you have to let them know about your boundaries, in no unclear terms.

If there are some specific people who you’re involved with consistently breach your personal boundaries, you have to communicate about your mind shift kindly.

Let them know you have spent some time thinking about what is important and acceptable to you and what isn’t. Let them know how they have crossed your boundaries in the past, and ask them to respect and support your new boundaries.

This applies to the people you know.

But don’t forget, and even EXPECT that this sort of conversation will feel uncomfortable, and maybe even difficult for you, especially if you are a people-pleaser.

People may even push back or act defensive at first – and it’s completely normal and OK. They’ll get used to it eventually and get over it.

Just make sure you’re aware that you may lose some people in your life due to this change.

When you start demanding respect from people, you may not mesh with some of, them and they will walk away. But don’t worry, these are the aren’t the people you want to be in your life anyway!

From then on, you’ll start to attract new, more emotionally healthy, supportive and happier people into your life.

Just don’t compromise your integrity, self-respect, values, ideals and goals simply to keep someone in your life!

The people you don’t know:

When it comes to strangers, it’s a bit more difficult, as you’d look absolutely silly if you went around and listed your boundaries to others.

With strangers, you always have to let them cross your boundary once. Then you CLEARLY and IN NO UNCERTAIN TERMS communicate to them that it is not acceptable if they want to become friends with you or deal with you in any manner, be it professional or intimate.

You let them know of the consequences, that you will walk away and not deal with them if they breach those boundaries again. Remember to define your important boundaries, and your fluid ones at this point. Don’t be too rigid.

You have to reinforce your boundaries for people to take you seriously and respect you.

When someone crosses them, let the other person know what they are doing, and ask them to stop immediately. Do this calmly, without getting emotional.

Over time, people will realize that you’re serious and start taking you seriously.

Just don’t forget that boundaries are a two-way street! You should also examine your own behavior – how you act and what you say to other people, to see where you might be crossing their boundaries as well.
Work to change those habits and behaviors so that you are reflecting the respect and support you want for yourself. And make sure to acknowledge and reward those who are supporting and respecting your personal boundaries.
 
Here’s a good excerpt from Dr. Henry Cloud and Dr. John Townsend. Boundaries: When To Say Yes, When To Say No, To Take Control of Your Life.
---
“As time goes on, your boundaries may require updating. Perhaps the time you can give to others is much more limited after starting a new relationship or having a baby. Redefining your boundaries may mean swapping the belief “I want to please others” to “I value my time and want to keep some for myself.”
 
Bear in mind that those close to you may not be fully supportive of your attempts to change. They have been used to the old ways of doing things. As with any life change, extending boundaries has a price, and this may be losing acquaintances along the way. Of course, those relationships that are worth having will survive, and grow stronger.

Be consistent with your new boundaries. Keep them simple. Stay calm at all times.

Be responsible for your own emotional reactions rather than blaming other people.

If it appears you need to compromise - be flexible, but take it slowly and don’t agree to anything that doesn’t feel right.

Once you have established strong, clear boundaries, people will give you more respect. This means you can be yourself to a greater extent, asking for what you really want and need without fear of judgment. Emotional manipulators will back off, and in their place, sustainable and loving relationships will thrive.
---

But this all stems from your personal value. You have to believe in yourself and your value as a unique individual who is worthy of love and respect from others.

You have to like yourself as a person first. But that’s another problem for another time.

I hope you understand the importance of boundaries and why you need to set them.

So take a free day, re-evaluate yourself as a person, and make that list!

That’s the first and most important thing you must do if you want to set your boundaries.

Then you have to have some courage to enforce them, to not be afraid to walk away from people who do not respect you and to change your life.

This is the end of lesson one. I hope you learned something useful and that it helped or at least inspired you to want to start and change as a person for the better.

In later lessons, you will see exactly how this one applies to attraction and seduction.